#title Disclaimer
#date 2008-11-19 00:00:00 -0800

* No Review

Content on the site is contributed by members and is not reviewed for efficacy. Vocabulink makes no guarantee about the effectiveness of any mnemonic or other learning device on the site.

None of the contributors, sponsors, administrators, or anyone else connected with Vocabulink in any way whatsoever can be responsible for the appearance of any inaccurate or libelous information or for your use of the information contained in or linked from these web pages.

* No Contract; limited license

The information provided here is being provided freely. There is no agreement or contract between you and the owners or users of this site, or anyone in any way connected with the site. No grant of license for the content on the site implies any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Vocabulink or any of its agents, members, or users.

There is no agreement or understanding between you and Vocabulink regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the Creative Commons Attribution Share Alike license.

* Trademarks

Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the pages of Vocabulink are the property of their respective owners.

* Objectionable Content

Mnemonics by nature must be emotive and provocative to be effective. As such, some mnemonics may contain words or images that:

 - are considered profane, vulgar or offensive by some readers.
 - contain audio, visual, or written representations of people or events which may be protected by some cultures.
 - contain spoilers.
 - contain triggers for people with post-traumatic stress disorder.
 - contain images which can trigger epileptic seizures and other medical conditions.

Vocabulink's policy is to allow all such content when it's used as part of a mnemonic device.

(Much of this disclaimer is from Wikipedia. See [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer]].)
