#title Understanding Link Types
#section main

Each link on Vocabulink has a type. The best way to understand link types is to
look through links created by other members. Each link is color-coded so that
you can see what it is at a glance.

<contents>

* <literal><span style="color: #13B1B3"></literal>Link Word<literal></span></literal>

The link word is the most important type of link, because it's the one with the
most mnemonic value. It's the type of link from which Vocabulink gets its name
originally.

The idea behind a link word is that the foreign language word triggers a
similar-sounding word or phrase in your native language. You then use that
native language word to create a mnemonic story linking the 2.

For example, the Esperanto word for "week" is "semajno" (pronounced roughly
"say-mine-oh"). "semajno" could trigger the phrase "say 'mine, ho!'" which you
could then weave into a story about the 7 dwarves working all week or a less
wholesome story if you like.

Note that link words do not have to sound exactly like the foreign word. They
just have to be similar enough for the one to trigger the other in your brain.
It's common when you're new at creating link word mnemonics to get frustrated
after searching for minutes for a link word without success. Don't despair.
Just lower your standards a little bit and search for words and phrases that
just have some resemblance to the foreign word.

Except for when dealing with soundalikes, always try to create links as link
words. Spend at least 5 minutes searching for a link before giving up and
moving to another link type.

Link word associations always go from target (foreign) word (origin) to source
(native) word (destination) because the link word is triggered by the foreign
word.

* <literal><span style="color: #86CF6A"></literal>Soundalike<literal></span></literal>

A soundalike is like an association, but it's easier to remember because the
words sound the same. For example, the German word "milch" is a soundalike for
"milk".

Be careful that you're actually linking 2 words with the same meaning.
Sometimes [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/False_friend][false friends]] can crop up. The Parker Pen company learned this the
hard way when they translated "embarrass" as "embarazar" in the Spanish version
of their slogan. What they wanted to say was "It won't leak into your pocket
and embarrass you" but they ended up saying "It won't leak in your pocket and
make you pregnant."[1]

* <literal><span style="color: #000000"></literal>Association<literal></span></literal>

An association is the least useful type of link. It only tells you that 2 words
are related, but it gives you no information about how they are related.

Association links are link flashcards: there's a word on each side, but that's
all you get.

Avoid creating association links. Only do so if you've exhausted all other
possibilities but need to link the words for study.

; * <literal><span style="color: #AA0077"></literal>Relationship<literal></span></literal>

; The relationship link is an experimental link type. Vocabulink is about
; research just as much as it's about learning, and in time we will be able to
; figure out how useful this link type is. A relationship link says that 2 words
; are related in the same or a similar way that 2 other words are related. If
; you've taken an SAT test, you're probably familiar with these types of word
; associations. For example:

; > cat is to fish as
; > snake is to mouse

; These associations can be subjective. In fact, truly objective associations are
; probably rare. Often times the association is multi-faceted and draws upon
; subtle generalizations from your experience of the world.

Footnotes: 
[1]  Sandy Serva, [[http://www.econtentmag.com/Articles/ArticleReader.aspx?ArticleID=1038][iLanguage: Translations for Global Research]], Jan 2003, Vol. 26, Issue 1, p 51.

