#title Welcome to Vocabulink
#date 2009-03-24 21:54:00 -0700

Vocabulink is devoted to helping you learn foreign languages as quickly and
effortlessly as possible. We do this by focusing only on vocabulary. Contrary
to what they teach you in school, nothing else is important. You can build
fluency in the language of your choice with nothing but a basic vocabulary.

<literal>
<blockquote class="right">
<p>
“Once you have a solid vocabulary, learning becomes a leisure activity.”
</p>
</blockquote>
</literal>

Once you have a base of vocabulary to build on, you just have to begin using
the language in whatever way you want. Read a book or a website in the
language. Talk to native speakers. Watch movies or listen to radio shows. Once
you have a solid vocabulary, learning becomes a leisure activity. There's no
need for textbooks: you'll figure out grammar as you go along (just like
children do).

Building a vocabulary is the most important and most time-consuming part of
learning a language. But the good news is that you can learn vocabulary faster
and more easily than you imagined. We'll show you how, using 3 simple tools.

* Outrageous Stories that Link Foreign Words Directly into Your Brain

<literal>
<blockquote class="left">
<p>
“It's like we tatoo the word directly onto your brain while you're distracted
reading an entertaining story.”
</p>
</blockquote>
</literal>

Vocabulink uses stories to make new words stick. Each word's story shows you
the meaning of the word, but it also makes sure that you don't forget it. It's
like we tatoo the word directly onto your brain while you're distracted reading
an entertaining story.

* Study Only the Words that Count

According to some estimates[1], there are nearly 1 million words in the English
language. That seems very daunting until you realize that the word "the" makes
up 7% of the total words we read[2]. Following "the", the word "of" accounts
for 3.5%. The next word, "and" makes up another 2.8% or so. With only 3 words
you can read something like 13% of written English! You only need 135 words to
read 50%[3]. And 135 words can be learned in a week with the right stories.

This uneven spread is similar in every language that statisticians have
studied. In fact, it has a name: Zipf's law. We can take advantage of this law
to build vocabulary scientifically. You can get up in running with a foreign
language with a minimum of study.

* Keep the Words You've Learned Fresh and On the Tip of Your Brain

Sometimes we forget words, even when we've used memorable stories. But it's a
tedious waste of time to keep studying the words day after day.

We've taken some of the latest scientific research about how memory works and
made it an integrated part of Vocabulink. It's called spaced repetition[4] and
it makes sure that you spend as little time reviewing words as possible. You
can think of it as your own personal language trainer, keeping detailed stats
on what you've learned and drilling you only on the ones it knows you're about
to forget.

* [[/member/signup][Sign Up]] for Free Now!

See for yourself just how easy it is.

Footnotes: 
[1]  [[http://www.languagemonitor.com/][The Global Language Monitor]]

[2]  according to the [[http://khnt.aksis.uib.no/icame/manuals/brown/][Brown Corpus]]

[3]  [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zipf%27s_law][Zipf's Law]]

[4]  [[http://www.supermemo.com/english/ol/background.htm][Spaced repetition in the practice of learning]]

